The core purpose of a Kubernetes operator is to monitor for state changes (events) related to resources within the cluster and act on them.

To understand what this means we can use a simple example. Run the command:

```execute-1
kubectl get serviceaccounts --watch --output-watch-events -o json
```

This will initially generate output similar to:

```
{
    "type": "ADDED",
    "object": {
        "apiVersion": "v1",
        "kind": "ServiceAccount",
        "metadata": {
            "creationTimestamp": "2020-07-04T06:20:00Z",
            "name": "default",
            "namespace": "lab-shell-operator-w01-s001",
            "resourceVersion": "10721634",
            "selfLink": "/api/v1/namespaces/lab-shell-operator-w01-s001/serviceaccounts/default",
            "uid": "156fa447-9645-4dca-9207-445e8aaa72dc"
        },
        "secrets": [
            {
                "name": "default-token-fspzs"
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

This is an event record describing the current state of the ``default`` service account in the namespace being monitored. We have reformatted the output here so it is easier to read. In the original command line output, each event record is on one line by itself.

Although the type of the event is ``ADDED``, this doesn't in this case mean that the service account was only just created. The watcher which was setup will at the beginning report this type of event for existing service accounts as well.

Now create a new service account by running:

```execute-2
kubectl create serviceaccount builder
```

This should result in two new events being emitted by the watcher.

```
{
    "type": "ADDED",
    "object": {
        "apiVersion": "v1",
        "kind": "ServiceAccount",
        "metadata": {
            "creationTimestamp": "2020-07-05T02:34:31Z",
            "name": "builder",
            "namespace": "lab-shell-operator-w01-s001",
            "resourceVersion": "10891359",
            "selfLink": "/api/v1/namespaces/lab-shell-operator-w01-s001/serviceaccounts/builder",
            "uid": "e067f966-cbdd-469c-9ea0-f08f4e115bf4"
        }
    }
}
{
    "type": "MODIFIED",
    "object": {
        "apiVersion": "v1",
        "kind": "ServiceAccount",
        "metadata": {
            "creationTimestamp": "2020-07-05T02:34:31Z",
            "name": "builder",
            "namespace": "lab-shell-operator-w01-s001",
            "resourceVersion": "10891362",
            "selfLink": "/api/v1/namespaces/lab-shell-operator-w01-s001/serviceaccounts/builder",
            "uid": "e067f966-cbdd-469c-9ea0-f08f4e115bf4"
        },
        "secrets": [
            {
                "name": "builder-token-7k675"
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

The first event of type ``ADDED`` in this case records the fact that the service account was just created.

The second event of type ``MODIFIED`` indicates that the details of the service account were subsequently changed. In particular, a secret was added to the service account.

The modification to the service account to add the secret was made by a built in controller within Kubernetes, which is continually monitoring for the creation of new service accounts.

You may be thinking at this point that what made the change sounds like an operator.

This is where we get into naming semantics. An operator is in fact a type of Kubernetes controller. The distinguishing factor that is generally attributed to operators is that they monitor and act on the creation and modification of a subset of Kubernetes resources called custom resources.

In practice an operator doesn't need to restrict itself to only working with custom resources, and in certain cases they will need to monitor and act on changes to builtin Kubernetes resources as well. As such, toolkits for implementing operators are really toolkits for implementing controllers. The term operator is just a buzzword assigned to controllers that a developer may implement to extend the functionality of Kubernetes for their own purposes.

Note that in the above discussion we mentioned events. Be aware that the events on resources generated by a watcher are distinct from the ``Event`` resource type in Kubernetes. The latter resource type relates to high level events logging changes in the state of the cluster and workloads deployed to the cluster.
